All right.
So we've seen two different values for this so far.
We saw that when we declared just a regular old function.
We don't call it as a method.
We don't put it in an object.
This refers to the window object when we use this instead of a method.
It's a way of accessing the parent objects.
The object that the method is located in like we used right here with this share object but that's not
always the case.
The value of this depends on the invocation contexts of the function that it's used in.
What that means is the value will change depending on how the function is actually executed not just
where you write it.
So yes I wrote this instead of a method but that doesn't mean it's guaranteed to reference this object.
It depends on how I'm calling it and here I'm calling it how you normally would call a method the natural
way to call this would be person dot print bio or person dot full name.
This is what is setting the value of this the way that I'm actually executing or invoking this function.
So this is kind of a shapeshifter in this way.
So I have these different faces down here.
It's tough to come up with a good visual representation of it.
But let me show you how we could actually change the value of this.
What I could do is make a reference to this function print bio.
Let's work with that one.
I'll call this concept print bio equals person dot print bio.
So I'm just pointing this variable print bio to that function.
It's still a property on the person object.
I didn't remove it.
I didn't delete it.
I just made a variable pointing to it.
And if I call print bio
I got to refresh the code.
Try it again.
We get a different error this dot full name is not a function.
So why don't we add a console dot log this at the end and see what's going on.
So if I call print bio again this dot full names on a function.
Well I'm an idiot.
I'm concerned that logging after that error.
Let's do it before the error Okay here we go.
It's referencing the window just like we had up here.
If I call say hi.
It references the window and that's because of how I'm executing the function.
If I instead execute it the way we've been doing person dot what do we call it.
Print bio the name of this method right there.
This is referring to the object so you can think of it as if there is something to the left and then
a dot and then you're executing the function.
This will be set to that thing to the left.
If there's nothing to the left if we're just calling say hi or for just calling print bio this will
be set to the global execution scope the window.
So this is the confusing part of this.
It's not set in stone.
You probably won't call your method this way.
It's not something you would do all the time but it's important to understand how it behaves.
There is a very significant difference.
So generally when you write this in a method you're gonna call it using the dot syntax.
You're going to call object dot method name person dot print bio.
Everything will be great.
Everyone's happy.
This refers to the object itself the parent object that contains the method but that doesn't mean it
always is set to that value.
It depends on the invocation context.
How you actually execute that function.
The line that you write that runs the code that runs the function later on in the course will see that
there are some additional rules and some ways of changing the value of this.
There are three special methods that are usually grouped together call apply and bind those will come
up later.
We'll talk about classes and prototypes and creating new objects that all has to do with the keyword.
This as well.
So right now this is just a quick introduction.
I want you to be aware of how this works in two of the most common scenarios.
And then there's one more thing to talk about which is arrow functions.
When we write an arrow function this is one of the key differences between a regular function and an
arrow function arrow functions do not get their own version of this.
It doesn't matter how you call it an arrow function.
If you execute it as a method where you call object dot name of the function or if you just call the
function directly the value of this is not going to be changed.
So in that way they are very different from a traditional function.
And I'll show this very quickly.
Let's just make a function called Oh.
This is the hardest part of teaching anything coming up with examples.
We have full name print bio.
How about laugh.
Okay so we'll define our function which will be an arrow function as a method.
I'll use this key syntax key value but the colon in there and inside of this I'm going to console dot
log this.
And for life let's console that log this dot let's do a template literal.
Let's put this dot nickname says Ha ha ha ha.
OK so we have this laugh method.
If I try and call laugh person dot laugh OK.
First of all the value of this is set to the window which is very different than the value of this in
print bio or in full name.
As we saw when we call print bio this is set to the object the person object an error function does
not behave that way.
The value of this is not changed in the arrow function.
It's a reference to the global scope to the window.
So sometimes that can be a good thing.
But generally this is why we don't use arrow functions as methods because a lot of the methods we write
we want to have access to the parent object or the containing object to do things like reference properties
or call a different method like we did inside of print bio.
We called this stop full name in an arrow function.
We couldn't do that at least not until we see things like bind.
So for that reason we usually don't use arrow functions as methods in an object but there's a reason
that arrow functions don't get their own this if you only use regular standard traditional functions
like this.
So annoying like this one right here.
Hopefully that's clearer.
Like this one right here sometimes you can run into issues and I'll show you an example of where that
can happen in the very next video.
So to summarize what we saw here the value of this is set by the invocation context it's not set in
stone purely based off of where you write it.
In this case we put it in an object instead of a function instead of an object we reference this and
when we called it as a method person dot print Pio.
This was set to the entire object the parent object versus when we made a reference to that same function
and instead called it just as a regular function without something to the left without object dot something
just print bio.
This was referring to the window so the execution context matters the way that you actually invoke it
does matter.
And then the second thing we saw was that arrow functions don't get there on this and in the next video
I'll expand on how that sometimes can be useful.